IOMesh 0.11.0 Release Notes (#139)
iomesh/docs: docs/additional-info/release-notes.md

* Support displaying the connection status of Chunk services.

#### Improved Features
* Declare reserved CPU and memory resources for IOMesh Operator, NDM, and Zookeeper Operator to ensure the QoS of their pods.
* Introduce Webhook to avoid unexpected parameter changes of clusters.
* Simplify IOMesh installation by improving the IOMesh deployment script.
* Optimize the license renewal method to update the license using the Kubernetes API. 
* Optimize the replica policy with only replication factor two or three is supported.
* Optimize the process of ZBS upgrade.
* Optimize the Liveness/Readyness probing methods of IOMesh pods to avoid false alarms due to high system load.

#### Resolved Issues
The issues listed below are resolved in this release.  
* NDM 1.7.x creates partitions for the disk by default when the WWID is not identified, causing the disk to be not mounted as cacheWithJournal or dataStoreWithJournal.
* The disk cannot be mounted when installing IOMesh Operator in the OpenShift Container Platform.
* The IOMesh system crashes because the loop device has been mounted by NDM.

> * Probe cannot access the process name and causes a CrashLoop, as the process name has been modified.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Probe cannot get the process status and causes a CrashLoop, as the process name has been modified.
```

---
id: release-notes
title: Release Notes
sidebar_label: Release Notes
---

## IOMesh 0.11.0

### What's New

#### New Features

##### Installation and Deployment
* Support deployment of the IOMesh cluster in the all-flash mode.
* Support deployment of the IOMesh cluster using the offline installation package.

> ##### Storage Capability

Author: 这里是想说“存储性能“吗？在 COCA 语料库里查到，storage capability 使用频次有22次，storage functionality 的用法还没出现，https://www.english-corpora.org/coca/ 。如果只是强调”存储服务“，看看是否改成 Storage Services 好一些？

> ##### Storage Capability

Reviewer 2: 是想表达「功能」的意思，不是性能

Support access to storage services using the iSCSI protocol on the compute platforms affiliated with IOMesh outside the Kubernetes cluster. 

> ##### Maintenance and Management

Author: Operation

> * Implement the NodeGetVolumeStas interface in CSI Spec and support PV monitoring with integrated systems such as Prometheus.

Author: support PV monitoring with third-party monitoring platforms such as Prometheus.

* Support checking the connection status of Chunk services.

#### Improved Features
* Reserve CPU and memory resources for IOMesh Operator, NDM, and Zookeeper Operator to ensure the QoS of their pods.
* Provide Webhook to avoid unexpected parameter changes of clusters.
* Simplify IOMesh installation by improving the IOMesh deployment script.
* Optimize the license renewal method to update the license using the Kubernetes API. 

> * Optimize the replication policy with only replication factor two or three is supported.

Reviewer 2: `replication policy` 通常用来表示「数据复制的策略」。
建议用 `storage policy `或 `replica policy` 更合适。

* Optimize the process of ZBS version upgrade.

> * Optimize the Liveness/Readyness configuration of IOMesh pods to avoid repeated restarts of IOMesh pods due to high system load.

Author: @kylezh 可以问问 false positive 是啥意思吗？

> * Optimize the Liveness/Readyness configuration of IOMesh pods to avoid repeated restarts of IOMesh pods due to high system load.

Reviewer: “误报"/"假阳性"，本来是健康的，但是因为系统负载太高，而误报成非健康的

> * Optimize the Liveness/Readyness configuration of IOMesh pods to avoid repeated restarts of IOMesh pods due to high system load.

Author: Optimize the Liveness/Readyness probing methods of IOMesh pods to avoid false alarms from IOMesh due to high system load. 看看这句可以吗？

#### Resolved Issues
The issues listed below are resolved in this release.  

> * NDM 1.7.x creates partitions for the disk by default when the WWID is not identified, causing the disk to be not mounted as cacheWithJournal or dataStoreWithJournal.

Author: 目前我们的“修复问题”只描述了问题，未提供解决方案，因此在这部分前先说明了这些问题已被解决，再列举这些问题，句中没有出现 fix problem/failure 和 solve problem 这类表达~

参考 Portworx 和 VMware 写法：
Portworx: issue + user impact + resolution
https://docs.portworx.com/reference/release-notes/portworx/#:~:text=ClusterPair%20can%20also%20be%20set,pairs%20configured%20using%20backup%20location.
VMware: issue explained + "This issue is resolved in this release"
https://docs.vmware.com/en/VMware-vSphere/7.0/rn/vsphere-esxi-70u3c-release-notes.html#:~:text=If%20you%20use,in%20this%20release.

* The disk cannot be mounted when installing IOMesh Operator in the OpenShift Container Platform.
* The IOMesh system crashes because the loop device has been mounted by NDM.
* Probe cannot access the process name and causes a CrashLoop, as the process name has been modified.
* Memory leaks because Probe does not reclaim RPC connections.
* Memory leaks due to ZBS Client not being closed.
* The newly created pods bound to PVCs time out when the number of pods bound to PVCs on a Kubernetes worker node exceeds 100.

> * A timeout occurs when formatting a PV as an XFS file system, as the capacity of PV exceeds 5TB.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* A timeout occurs when formatting a PV as an XFS file system, as the size of PV exceeds 5TB.
```

* The disk cannot be mounted while device manager logs show messages of successful mounting.

#### Known Issues 

> * Replicas of PVs by CSI volume cloning may not match with original PVs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Replica factor of PVs by CSI volume cloning may not retain with original PVs.
```

Author: @kylezh 这里的 retain 是啥意思呢？

Reviewer: “保持一致”，也可以用 consistent

> * The number of PVs per session cannot exceed 100,000.

Reviewer: session?

Author: The number of PVs created each time cannot exceed 100,000. 看看可以吗？

> ### Specifications

Reviewer 2: 这里要用表格，下面的兼容性部分也是
